Data curation is the organization and integration of data collected from various sources. It involves annotation, publication and presentation of the data such that the value of the data is maintained over time, and the data remains available for reuse and preservation. Data curation includes "all the processes needed for principled and controlled data creation, maintenance, and management, together with the capacity to add value to data".[1] In science, data curation may indicate the process of extraction of important information from scientific texts, such as research articles by experts, to be converted into an electronic format, such as an entry of a biological database.

In the modern era of big data, the curation of data has become more prominent, particularly for software processing high volume and complex data systems. The term is also used in historical occasions and the humanities, where increasing cultural and scholarly data from digital humanities projects requires the expertise and analytical practices of data curation. In broad terms, curation means a range of activities and processes done to create, manage, maintain, and validate a component. Specifically, data curation is the attempt to determine what information is worth saving and for how long.

What is the job role of a data curator?

Data curators are data specialists who collect, organize, clean and transform data to make it accessible for organizations and individuals. Data curators may gather new data or perform a more thorough analysis of existing research.

What is data curation example?

Examples of data curation include: Data Acquisition: This involves selecting and acquiring data from various sources, such as databases, websites, and other digital sources. This step also includes ensuring the data is of high quality and is suitable for the intended use.

What is a curation strategy?

Good curation includes gathering information from credible sources and adding something new to it to make it interesting and worth sharing. Some effective ways to add unique value to curated content include twisting words, adding opinions, or commentary.

What are the benefits of curation?

Curating content gives you a broader exposure to new topics, publishers, and websites, thus allowing you to gain insights. These findings can, in turn, help you improve your content marketing strategy and fill the gaps in the content you offer.

Is being a curator stressful?

% who say their job is stressful: 89%

Curators must also research and write museum articles, negotiate the exchange or loan of collections, coordinate with customs and art handlers and answer to directors, the board and artists themselves.

Perkin Elmer India
Chemistry Data Curator
Perkin Elmer India  Bengaluru, Karnataka, India

Perkin Elmer India
Chemistry Data Curator
Perkin Elmer India  Bengaluru, Karnataka, India
2 months ago   Be among the first 25 applicants
Apply 

Save

Job Title


Chemistry Data Curator


Location(s)


India - Remote


Chemistry Data Curator


Job Description


Curate all available chemical information from vendors data into machine readable formats and load them into a central database. Improve existing processes for curation through automation.


Responsibilities


Extract the vendors data available in different file formats (SDF, CSV, Excel, and plain text) and bring it into a standard format as required to load into a central database. This includes cleaning of the data, conversion of the data from one format to another (e.g. name to structure and vice versa) and generating 2D structure data in SDfiles for loading purposes.


Record the above activities into JIRA and Confluence.


Examine all steps of the existing process, identify areas where automation can be used, implement the solutions, and devise automated tests.


Qualifications And Experience


Undergraduate degree or higher in chemistry, preferably organic chemistry


Required Skills


Experience in working with SQL-based databases, including strong knowledge in using scripts to extract, modify, and load data.


Proficient in verbal and written communications.


Excellent interpersonal skills.


Good To Have


Experience using ChemDraw/ChemOffice.


Knowledge of IUPAC nomenclature and SDfile format.


Knowledge in handling chemical databases with huge datasets.


Experience with a scripting language like Python.


Knowledge of agile methodologies.


